## Iteration 1 - Making Blocks

### Block Basics

Now that we have some approaches for creating and representing
transactions, we can look at the next data structure in our
ledger, the **Block**. Essentially, a block is just a collection of transactions.
The block exists to bundle up multiple transactions and commit them to
the blockchain.

### Block Ingredients

The main bulk of a block will ultimately be composed
of the transactions it contains. But there are a few other
pieces of information that need to get mixed in in order to
validate the block and all ow it to be included in the chain.

We'll consider the collection of transactions as the Block's **body**,
and the additional metadata as its **header**.

The body consists of all the transactions contained in the block
in sequential order.

The header contains the following pieces of data:

1. **Previous Block Hash** - Hash of the header of the previous block (this links this block
to the previous one)
2. **Transactions Hash** - Hash of all the transactions contained in this block
3. **Block Timestamp** - Time the block was created, in seconds since Unix epoch
4. **Difficulty Target** - The hashing difficulty against which this block was mined, encoded as a Hex string (more
on how this target gets set later)
5. **Nonce** - A special value used to "complete" the block by causing it to generate a hash
value lower than the required difficulty target. This value will start at 0 and be incremented
by miners until they find an appropriate hash value
6. **Block Hash** - A SHA256 hash of the other contents in this block's header

### The "Coinbase" Transaction

How do transactions get included in a block? For the most part they will be sourced
from the network. As a miner works to generate new blocks, they'll listen for
new transactions to be broadcasted over the network, and will include those
in the block it's working on. And these transactions will follow the standard
pattern -- transferring funds from one address to another by turning transaction
inputs to transaction outputs.

There is one exception to this pattern, called a **Coinbase** transaction.
This is a single transaction which a miner is allowed to include in the beginning
of a block that awards themself coins for mining the block. A coinbase
transaction represents the creation of new coins, and as such it has no *inputs*
and one *output*.

The coinbase transaction is especially significant because it solves 2
problems: first, it provides additional incentives for miners to generate
new blocks, since they are rewarded for doing so. Secondly, it manages the
introduction of new coins into the money supply.

It's up to other nodes on the network to ensure that checking for a proper
coinbase transaction (and ensuring that only one exists) is part of their
process for validating a block.

### Generating a Block's Hash

Just like we used hashing to validate transactions by fingerprinting them in
the last iteration, hashing is important for both uniquely identifying blocks
and for protecting them against tampering.

To generate a block's hash, we'll simply hash the concatenated
remaining contents of its header:

```
SHA256 Hash ( previous block hash + transactions hash + timestamp + difficulty target + nonce )
```

Including all of these contents in a block's hash means that tampering with any
1 piece of content will change the hash (and invalidate the block by pushing the hash
back above the allowed difficulty target). Additionally, a block's hash is what places
it in the chain, since any child blocks will refer back to it by "linking" to its
hash. Thus changing a block's hash causes it to become the site of a new "fork"
in the chain, disconnecting any children that had previously linked to it from the
newly altered block.

Note that the **transactions hash** for the block header is generated by concatenating
the hex strings of the hashes of all the transactions in the block and then hashing
this resulting string.

### Mining Your First Block

So how do we create a block? Blocks are sometimes compared to puzzles or locked boxes.
Any node can generate a new block by assembling the various contents listed above.

However, in order for the block to be accepted by the network, its must pass the
expected difficulty threshold. Remember that hashes are simply large numbers
(in the case of SHA256, a number between 0 and 2^256). Our difficulty target
will be another large number, and meeting the difficulty target simply means
producing a SHA256 hash *lower than* the provided difficulty target.

Remember also that the hash value of a given input is not predictable or organized.
Suppose that you were mining against a difficulty target of `2^128` (a large number that
is still much much smaller than the possible max value of `2^256`). It's conceivable
that your block would produce a hash smaller than `2^128` on the first try, but
is exceedingly unlikely.

This is where the actual "mining" process comes in. In order to get your block to
generate a valid (lower-than-the-difficulty) hash, you need to try hasing a different
block header. Since the other header components are somewhat "locked" (they depend on
the actual contents of the block), your only option is to change the *nonce*. And,
since we can't predict what input values will generate the hash value we're hoping for,
our best bet is simply to change the nonce (usually by incrementing it) and try again.

Thus mining becomes a brute force exercise in trying new nonce values until we find the
one that combines with the rest of the block header contents to give us a hash below
the desired difficulty threshold.

### Hashing Transactions

To generate the block's transaction hash, generate the hexadecimal hashes for
the individual transactions as described in Iteration 0, then concatenate them,
and SHA256 hash the resulting hex string.

### Block Structure

To send blocks around the network, we'll use a standard JSON format that looks like this:

**Un-Mined:**

(Notice that this block has a nonce value of `0` and a hash value that is higher
than the specified target)

```json
{
    "header": {
        "parent_hash": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "transactions_hash": "203a0e37fa56a530f678d6331baf83a7b72d5d67c189aeb3ca17ed8a2a5bc654",
        "target": "0000100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "timestamp": 1450564013,
        "nonce": 0,
        "hash": "65cc0cff6f61c81443152ec64fa7ac3d26733173eea6235e0ef4f986e31f9836"
    },
    "transactions": [
        {
            "inputs": [],
            "outputs": [
                {
                    "amount": 25,
                    "address": "-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----\nMIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAuFl76216Veu5\/H2MM4lO\nNFOuZLGcwxeUQzdmW2g+da5mmjyV3RiuYueDJFlAgx2iDASQM+rK1qKp7lj352DU\n3gABqJ5Tk1mRvGHTGz+aP4sj8CKUnjJIQVmmleiRZ47wRDsnrg9N0XyfW+aiPKxl\njvr1pkKJmryO+u2d69Tc69bNsqpGzFLTdO3w1k\/jxa0pUAQNqf11MJSrzF7u\/Z+8\nmaqFZlzZ5o1LgqTLMpeFg0pcMIKuZb9yQ1IKqOjLsvTvYYyBbNU31FD8qVY\/R64z\nbrIYbfWXNiUrYOXyIq7rqegLf3fx+aJGgwUOGYr2MJjY+ZR5Z+cIKJiAgNnpkBWR\nhwIDAQAB\n-----END PUBLIC KEY-----\n"
                }
            ],
            "timestamp": 1450564013887,
            "hash": "933de73b476eb420aadc3c0e5959c6b0e3d1a58c4f997bd60bcbdbb5a0beeb90"
        }
    ]
}
```

**Mined:**

(Now the block's nonce has been incremented to the point that it meets the provided difficulty
target)

```json
{
    "header": {
        "parent_hash": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "transactions_hash": "203a0e37fa56a530f678d6331baf83a7b72d5d67c189aeb3ca17ed8a2a5bc654",
        "target": "0000100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
        "timestamp": 1450564013,
        "nonce": 1354641,
        "hash": "000002b889bb79228ff41f86a65e2e0e143955cf746c2a33ed223d2701cd9c72"
    },
    "transactions": [
        {
            "inputs": [],
            "outputs": [
                {
                    "amount": 25,
                    "address": "-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----\nMIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAuFl76216Veu5\/H2MM4lO\nNFOuZLGcwxeUQzdmW2g+da5mmjyV3RiuYueDJFlAgx2iDASQM+rK1qKp7lj352DU\n3gABqJ5Tk1mRvGHTGz+aP4sj8CKUnjJIQVmmleiRZ47wRDsnrg9N0XyfW+aiPKxl\njvr1pkKJmryO+u2d69Tc69bNsqpGzFLTdO3w1k\/jxa0pUAQNqf11MJSrzF7u\/Z+8\nmaqFZlzZ5o1LgqTLMpeFg0pcMIKuZb9yQ1IKqOjLsvTvYYyBbNU31FD8qVY\/R64z\nbrIYbfWXNiUrYOXyIq7rqegLf3fx+aJGgwUOGYr2MJjY+ZR5Z+cIKJiAgNnpkBWR\nhwIDAQAB\n-----END PUBLIC KEY-----\n"
                }
            ],
            "timestamp": 1450564013887,
            "hash": "933de73b476eb420aadc3c0e5959c6b0e3d1a58c4f997bd60bcbdbb5a0beeb90"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Determining the Difficulty Threshold for a New Block
